###############################################################################
# blog.rest — exercise the `.wo` runtime against docs/examples/blog/
#
# Start the server first:
#     cargo run --bin wo -- run docs/examples/blog
#
# Then in VS Code (REST Client extension) or JetBrains (HTTP Client):
#     click "Send Request" on each block, top to bottom
#
# Response back-references (# @name foo → {{foo.response.body.id}}) are
# supported by both clients — later blocks pick up ids minted by earlier
# blocks automatically. For `curl` equivalents, see reference/rest/README.md.
###############################################################################

@host = http://127.0.0.1:8080


### Runtime info — expected 200
GET {{host}}/

### Liveness probe — expected 200 "ok"
GET {{host}}/healthz


###############################################################################
# Author — exposes: list, get, me, subscribe
###############################################################################

### List authors (empty on fresh boot) — expected 200 []
GET {{host}}/api/authors

### Author create is NOT exposed in the blog sample (expose list, get, me, subscribe)
# Expected 405 — method not allowed. The sample expects authors seeded by
# `on startup do: seed_admin()` in app.wo. Stage 2 doesn't run startup hooks
# yet, so the list above will be empty.
POST {{host}}/api/authors
Content-Type: application/json

{ "email": "alice@example.com", "handle": "alice", "display": "Alice" }

### /me — Stage 3 session layer; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/authors/me

### LIVE subscribe — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/authors/live


###############################################################################
# Article — exposes: list, get, create, update, delete, subscribe
###############################################################################

### Create an article — expected 201
# @name createArticle
POST {{host}}/api/articles
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "slug":      "hello-writeonce",
  "title":     "Hello, writeonce",
  "author":    1,
  "published": true,
  "meta": {
    "excerpt": "First post on the new runtime.",
    "body_md": "# Hi\n\nHello from the `.wo` runtime. The server, the database, and this HTTP API are all one binary.\n"
  }
}

### Create a second article (draft) — expected 201
# @name createDraft
POST {{host}}/api/articles
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "slug":      "second-draft",
  "title":     "Second Post (draft)",
  "author":    1,
  "published": false,
  "meta": { "excerpt": "", "body_md": "WIP." }
}

### List articles — expected 200 with 2 rows
GET {{host}}/api/articles

### Get one article by id — expected 200
GET {{host}}/api/articles/{{createArticle.response.body.id}}

### Partial update (PATCH) — change just the title — expected 200
PATCH {{host}}/api/articles/{{createArticle.response.body.id}}
Content-Type: application/json

{ "title": "Hi, writeonce!" }

### Partial update of an embedded-document field — expected 200
# Note: Stage 2's PATCH does a shallow merge at the top level.
# To change `meta.excerpt` alone you re-send the whole `meta` object.
PATCH {{host}}/api/articles/{{createArticle.response.body.id}}
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "meta": { "excerpt": "Updated excerpt.", "body_md": "# Hi\n\nUpdated body." }
}

### Publish the draft — expected 200 (`on update` trigger that sets
### `published_at` is Stage 3+; Stage 2 just records the bool change).
PATCH {{host}}/api/articles/{{createDraft.response.body.id}}
Content-Type: application/json

{ "published": true }

### Delete the draft — expected 204 No Content
DELETE {{host}}/api/articles/{{createDraft.response.body.id}}

### Get the deleted id — expected 404
GET {{host}}/api/articles/{{createDraft.response.body.id}}

### LIVE subscribe (Article) — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/articles/live


###############################################################################
# Tag — exposes: list, get, subscribe
###############################################################################

### List tags — expected 200 [] (create is not exposed)
GET {{host}}/api/tags

### Tag create NOT exposed (expose list, get, subscribe) — expected 405
POST {{host}}/api/tags
Content-Type: application/json

{ "slug": "rust", "label": "Rust" }

### LIVE subscribe (Tag) — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/tags/live


###############################################################################
# Comment — exposes: list, get, create, update, delete, subscribe
###############################################################################

### Create a comment — expected 201
# @name createComment
POST {{host}}/api/comments
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "article": {{createArticle.response.body.id}},
  "author":  1,
  "body":    "Nice post. Runs on one binary which is still weird to me."
}

### List comments — expected 200 with 1 row
GET {{host}}/api/comments

### Get one comment — expected 200
GET {{host}}/api/comments/{{createComment.response.body.id}}

### Update comment body — expected 200 (the `on update when old.body != new.body
### do set self.edited_at = now()` trigger is Stage 3+; edited_at stays unset)
PATCH {{host}}/api/comments/{{createComment.response.body.id}}
Content-Type: application/json

{ "body": "Edited: really, one binary? Neat." }

### Delete comment — expected 204
DELETE {{host}}/api/comments/{{createComment.response.body.id}}

### LIVE subscribe (Comment) — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/comments/live


###############################################################################
# Final state — should show the updated article still there, no drafts,
# no comments (all deleted above).
###############################################################################

### Final article list — expected 200 with 1 row
GET {{host}}/api/articles

### Final comment list — expected 200 []
GET {{host}}/api/comments
