###############################################################################
# ecommerce.rest — exercise the `.wo` runtime against docs/examples/ecommerce/
#
# Start the server first:
#     cargo run --bin wo -- run docs/examples/ecommerce
#
# The ecommerce sample is heavier on features that land in later stages:
#   * orders are minted by `fn checkout(customer, product, qty) in txn snapshot`
#     — transactional functions are a Stage 3/4 addition. Stage 2 does not
#     register `/api/fn/checkout` yet; the block below documents that.
#   * customer/product/order rows are seeded by `on startup do: seed()` in
#     app.wo — startup hooks are also Stage 3+. Lists start empty.
#   * Order-status lifecycle triggers (`on update when old.status != Paid ...`)
#     are Stage 3+.
#
# This file therefore focuses on what Stage 2 *does* serve — route wiring,
# empty-list reads, method-not-allowed for non-exposed operations, and the
# Stage-3 stubs that respond 501. It doubles as a living spec for what the
# ecommerce sample should behave like once Stage 3+ lands.
###############################################################################

@host = http://127.0.0.1:8080


### Runtime info — expected 200
GET {{host}}/

### Liveness probe — expected 200 "ok"
GET {{host}}/healthz


###############################################################################
# Product — exposes: list, get, subscribe
# Stage 2 does NOT expose create — admin console is expected to seed inventory.
###############################################################################

### List products — expected 200 [] (no startup seed yet)
GET {{host}}/api/products

### Product create NOT exposed — expected 405
POST {{host}}/api/products
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "sku":   "SKU-WIDGET",
  "name":  "Widget",
  "price": 1999,
  "meta":  { "description": "A widget.", "images": [], "attributes": { "colour": "blue" } },
  "inventory": { "on_hand": 50, "reserved": 0, "reorder_at": 10 }
}

### Get by id — expected 404 (nothing exists)
GET {{host}}/api/products/1

### LIVE subscribe — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/products/live


###############################################################################
# Customer — exposes: get, me, update, subscribe
# Customer create is gated by admin/self-signup flows outside this sample's
# scope. For now the list endpoint is not exposed either.
###############################################################################

### List NOT exposed — expected 404
# Customer's `expose get, me, update, subscribe` has nothing at the collection
# root, so no route is registered at `/api/customers` at all. The server
# returns 404 "no route" rather than 405 "method not allowed".
GET {{host}}/api/customers

### Customer create NOT exposed — expected 404
# Same reason: no method attached to /api/customers.
POST {{host}}/api/customers
Content-Type: application/json

{ "email": "carol@shop.test", "name": "Carol", "role": "Customer" }

### Get by id — expected 404 (nothing exists)
GET {{host}}/api/customers/1

### Update by id — would work if the customer existed; expected 404
PATCH {{host}}/api/customers/1
Content-Type: application/json

{ "name": "Carol Updated" }

### /me — Stage 3 session layer; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/customers/me

### LIVE subscribe — Stage 3; expected 501
GET {{host}}/api/customers/live


###############################################################################
# Order — exposes: list, get, subscribe
# Orders are created by `fn checkout(...)` (see logic/checkout.wo), not via
# POST. Stage 2 does not register transactional-fn endpoints, so the list is
# empty until Stage 3/4 brings them online.
###############################################################################

### List orders — expected 200 []
GET {{host}}/api/orders

### Order create NOT exposed (use fn checkout) — expected 405
POST {{host}}/api/orders
Content-Type: application/json

{ "customer": 1, "status": "Pending", "line_items": [] }

### LIVE subscribe — same WebSocket the `##ui #admin-orders` board opens in
### Stage 6. For now the endpoint responds 501. This is the single most
### requested Stage 3 endpoint for this sample.
GET {{host}}/api/orders/live


###############################################################################
# fn checkout — deferred to Stage 3/4 (transactional functions)
#
# When transactional-fn endpoints land, this block becomes the canonical
# cross-paradigm ACID test: one call updates the product's inventory doc,
# inserts an Order row, creates a Purchase graph edge, and threads the new
# order id through all three stores inside one BEGIN ... COMMIT.
#
# See docs/examples/ecommerce/logic/checkout.wo and
# docs/runtime/database/05-go-sdk.md "Checkout from Go without codegen".
###############################################################################

### Stage 2 returns 404 — the route isn't registered.
POST {{host}}/api/fn/checkout
Content-Type: application/json

{ "customer": 1, "product": 1, "qty": 2 }


###############################################################################
# Purchase (link type) — no `service rest` block declared
# Purchase edges are created by fn checkout and read via
# `Customer.purchased` traversal (Stage 3+ query language).
###############################################################################

### Purchase list NOT exposed — expected 404 (no route registered)
GET {{host}}/api/purchases
